So now let's look at what to do in case
of compromised AWS credentials, IAM roles and accounts.
So we have an IAM, and in IAM we have a user
that has been compromised.
So GuardDuty can detect it,
and figures out that some credentials have been compromised
and so therefore the first thing we have to do
is to rotate the exposed credentials
so that no one can use them in the future.
On top of it,
even though security credentials have been exposed
and rotated, you need to invalidate them
by attaching an explicit deny policy
to the affected IAM user with an STS date condition.
This is something I go over
in the IAM section of this course,
but just so you know,
by attaching this policy to the IAM user
then any previously issued credentials
before the date of today will not be able
to perform any actions in your account.
So this is how to mitigate it.
On top of it,
because the credentials may have been used,
you need to check the CloudTrail logs
for any unauthorized activity.
And then you need to review these resources in case,
while there has been unauthorized activity
such as deletion of resources or modifications.
And finally, always verify your account information
because it could have changed.
Now, if it's an IAM role that is compromised,
for example you have enabled active directory integration
or you assume a role, or whatever,
then again you need to identify
what is the compromised IAM role.
Then the same technique as before,
we attach an explicit deny policy to deny any action
for tokens issued before today's date.
So again, we'll see this in the next section.
We should revoke any access to the identity
in the linked active directory.
For example, if we're using SSO
and the user was compromised there.
We need to check for CloudTrail logs
for unauthorized activity,
review the resources and verify the account information.
So some similar steps as before.
And what if it's your entire account that get compromised?
Then of course,
delete and rotate any and all access keys of AWS.
Also, make sure that you rotate and delete
any unauthorized IAM user credentials,
and to rotate all of the existing IAM users passwords.
So it's question mark I have to say.
Then delete and rotate all EC2 key pairs
so that they cannot be used in the future
to SSH into your instances.
Check CloudTrail logs for unauthorized activity,
and then review all of your resources
for deletions and so on.
And finally, of course, review your account information.
So that's it.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.